---
layout: slide
title: Unproject
excerpt: The Virtual Reality Archaeological Adventure of Trinidad and Tobago
theme: serif
transition: convex
tags: [presentation]
category: presentation
---
<div class="reveal">
  <div class="slides">
    <section data-background-gradient="linear-gradient(to bottom, #283b95, #17b2c3)"> 
       <h1 class="r-fit-text"><b>Introduction to Digital Arts and Humanities Final Unproject</b></h1>
       <h3 class="r-fit-text"> The Virtual Reality Adventure of Trinidad and Tobago</h3> 
    </section>
     <section>The Virtual Reality Adventure is an immersive gaming experience that allows persons to embark on virtual expeditions to explore Trinidad and Tobago and it’s colonial, post-colonial, and current legacies. By focusing on the history of Trinidad and Tobago, the project can highlight the rich cultural heritage of the country and provide an immersive experience for both locals and visitors. 
     </section>
        <section>
           <section>
            <h3 class="r-fit-text"><b>Scope of the Adventure</b></h3>
             <h4 class="r-fit-text">Through a virtual deep dive into the country's colonial history, this project would aim to examine Trinidad and Tobago's colonial and post-colonial periods by examining indigenous cultures, slavery, the colonial era, historical events as well as cultural festivals and post colonial legacies</h4>
           </section>
           <section>
              <h1 class="r-fit-text"><b>Pre-Columbian Indigenous Cultures & Colonial Era</b></h1>
               <h2 class="r-fit-text">The project will delve into the rich history of Trinidad and Tobago's indigenous peoples, such as the Arawaks and Caribs. It can recreate their settlements, rituals, and way of life, providing players with insights into the pre-Columbian cultures that once thrived in the region.</h2>
                 <h2 class="r-fit-text">Trinidad and Tobago have a significant colonial history, with influences from the Spanish, French, Dutch, and British. The project can explore the colonial architecture, forts, and plantations that shaped the islands' development during this period.</h2>
            </section>
            <section>
                <h1 class="r-fit-text"><b>Sugar Plantations and Slavery</b></h1> 
                   <h2 class="r-fit-text">The project will highlight the role of sugar plantations and the transatlantic slave trade in the history of Trinidad and Tobago. It can recreate the plantation environment, depict the lives of enslaved individuals, and explore the social and economic impact of the sugar industry.</h2>
            </section>
            <section>
              <h1 class="r-fit-text"><b>Historical and Cultural Festivals and Events</b></h1>
                   <h2 class="r-fit-text">The project will explore significant historical events and personalities in Trinidad and Tobago's history. This will include the struggles for independence, notable leaders, and key milestones in the country's development.</h2>
                     <h2 class="r-fit-text"> Trinidad and Tobago are renowned for their vibrant Carnival celebrations and cultural festivals. The project can incorporate these festivities, providing players with an immersive experience of the music, costumes, and traditions associated with these cultural events.</h2>
            </section>
        </section>
            <section>
              <section>
                <h1 class="r-fit-text"><b>Data. Sourced? Collected? Digitized? Organized?</b></h1>
          <h2 class="r-fit-text">The data for the project would come from various sources, including archaeological records, historical documents, scholarly research, museum collections, and collaborations with experts in the field. It would be sourced from academic institutions, cultural organizations, government archives, and local communities.</h2>
          </section>
          <section>
           <h2 class="r-fit-text"> <b>Collection:</b> Involves primary methods such as fieldwork and secondary methods like accessing existing archives, research papers, publications, and documentation.</h2>
          <h2 class="r-fit-text"> <b>Digitization:</b> Capturing 3D geometric data and textures of artifacts and sites through 3D scanning, photogrammetry, or laser scanning. Textual data, images, and historical documents can also be digitized through scanning or transcription processes. The historical sites would need to be re-created virtually and should be as accurate as possible with respect to the actual places</h2>
          <h2 class="r-fit-text"> <b>Organization:</b> Creating systematic databases, metadata structures, or content management systems to store and manage collected and digitized data effectively. It would prioritize easy access, retrieval, and updating of information.</h2>
          </section>
          <section>
            <h1 class="r-fit-text"><b>Ethical Issues w/ the data?</b></h1>
             <h2 class="r-fit-text">Obtaining proper permissions, licenses, and consent as well as respecting not only intellectual property rights but also cultural sensitivities, and the historical artifacts is crucial, and should comply with relevant data protection regulations. Adequate measures will be taken to ensure the long-term preservation and security of data, with proper documentation to facilitate future updates. Moreover, controlled access or permissions may be necessary for sensitive data, while collaboration with institutions and partners can facilitate data sharing and knowledge dissemination.</h2>
          </section>
        </section>  
        <section>
          <h1 class="r-fit-text"><b>Methods and Techniques Employed</b></h1>
          <h2 class="r-fit-text">The project will use digitization techniques to convert physical artifacts, archaeological sites, and historical documents into digital formats. Using unity, which is a well-known gaming software that utilizes 3D and VR headsets, the virtual site would be created to employ, analyse, and interpret the visual data. Image classification and clustering would also be used to categorize and identify objects within the virtual environments. Additionally, the site would be designed to work seamlessly with mobile apps so technical considerations such as optimizing the site for mobile access will also be considered.</h2>
        </section>
  </div>
</div>
    